# Fatiando Development Calls 2023

ðŸ“± **Join the video call:** https://meet.jit.si/fatiando-a-terra

ðŸ“… **Shared calendar:** https://www.fatiando.org/calendar

> **IMPORTANT**: Everyone is required to follow our 
> [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/fatiando/community/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)
> when participating in the Fatiando community. Please review it carefully.

Development calls are **open to everyone**! Here we discuss project development, socialize, and do some live coding from time to time.

**Everyone is encouraged to participate and edit the notes below.**

--------------------------------------------------------------

**Parking lot for next meeting**

* Leo: Been thinking a bit about Verde and how some of the things it does are more widely useful. In particular, the generation of grid/profile/scatter points and the point partitioning (windows, blocking, etc) could be used elsewhere but right now Verde pulls in a lot of dependencies. Would it make sense to have a separate package that would include the following?
    * All of these https://www.fatiando.org/verde/dev/api/index.html#coordinate-manipulation
    * And this https://www.fatiando.org/verde/dev/api/generated/verde.median_distance.html#verde.median_distance
    * These are all fairly consistent: point generation and manipulation
    * Could be expanded to generate other types of coordinates and take spherical geometries into account in a more consistent manner.
    * Fairly simple with minimal dependencies (numpy, scipy, opt pykdtree)
    * Thought of a name :grin:: [Bordado](https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/portuguese-english/bordado) ([images](https://duckduckgo.com/?q=bordado&t=ffab&iar=images&iax=images&ia=images))
    * Most of this is already done and could be a drop-in replacement in packages that use them. Or maybe we use this to simplify those functions (since taking spacing or shape creates some usability problems).
    * Thoughts?
* Leo: Trying to find a good magnetic microscopy dataset to add to Ensaio. Will clean up the one we used [in this paper](https://doi.org/10.31223/X5QD5Z) because it's relatively good with a bunch of well behaved dipoles. Great for running grid-related examples in Harmonica since the data is on a regular grid at constant height from the very start. Would also be good for an Euler Deconvolution example since they're all very close to dipoles.


## 2023-10-19

**Time:** 00:00 UTC

**Participants:**

* Lu
* Mariana
* Santi

**Discussion points:**

* Santi is working on the magnetic simulation for SimPEG using Choclo
    * So far it's good: running faster than the current implementation: https://github.com/santisoler/simpeg/tree/mag-choclo
        * It's in `SimPEG/potential_fields/magnetics/simulation.py`
    * People is already trying it out!
* Santi: Important issue in Pooch (https://github.com/fatiando/pooch/issues/371)
    * Zenodo migrated to InvenioRDM
    * their new API is not backward compatible (although they said it should be in their blogpost)
    * so our Zenodo downloader is not working anymore
    * Santi craeted a bugfix: https://github.com/fatiando/pooch/pull/373
        * **Should we merge and release it ASAP?**
        * Should we wait for Zenodo to fix their API and make it backward compatible or properly document the specifications of the new API?
        * Santi sent a message to Zenodo explaining the backward incompatibilities.
        * Shall we wait or act quickly? Some users are asking for a quickfix and a new release.
        * Another option: should we keep both codes and allow users to change between them with a flag?
        * **Another option**: make the methods of ZenodoDownloader figure out which version of the API are we interacting with and act accordingly:
            * This way we keep backward compatibility and support the new API
        * **Roadmap**
            1. Write Zenodo to info@zenodo.org, they replied Leo within the same day in the past
            1. Let people know that we are waiting for Monday to get a reply. If not, by Tuesday we make a release
            1. Get a PR ready with the new idea: automate everything!
* Lu:
    * gravity kernel for point sources in choclo
    * interests in multiphysics inversions

## 2023-10-12

**Time:** 17:00 UTC

**Participants:**
* Mariana
* India
* Santi

**Discussion points:**

* India shows eqs_magnetic.py (equivalent source) and how she use Verde, Choclo and Harmonica.
* Santi has been merging some Harmonica PRs. He's planning to do a new release.
* BIRS report
* Cool new features to have
* Paper for magnetic corrections: https://doi.org/10.1029/2020JB019825
* Link to show what corrections BAS use: https://data.bas.ac.uk/full-record.php?id=GB/NERC/BAS/PDC/01350 
* Mariana note: gdb files are not the same as Oasis MontajÂ© grd files (currently available on Harmonica) 


## 2023-10-05

**Time:** 00:00 UTC

**Participants:**

* Mariana
* Lu
* Santi

**Discussion points:**
* Santi met his first wild bear :tada: :bear:
* Questions about inversions and interpolations
* What are we using the FFT in Harmonica? :tada: 
* Disussion about how to handle inclination and declinations in south pole with tesseroids
* Make Fatiando stickers for AGU!
    * Add fatiando.org to the logos
* New time meetings? India wants to join
    * Mondays 10:00 UTC - 13:00 UTC, 16:00 -20:00 UTC
    * Tuesdays 10:00 - 14:00, 17:00 - 20:00 UTC
    * Thursday 18:00 - 20:00 UTC
    * Make a when2meet for the afternoons and send it to the channel
* Todo: merge some PRs and make a release

## 2023-09-27

**Time:** 20:00 UTC

**Participants:**

* Santi
* Mariana

**Discussion points:**

* SWUNG's Mattermost instance is up. Process has been documented in https://github.com/softwareunderground/mattermost/
  Yet in testing stages to make the move.
    * I will bring the question to the board to create our own Fatiando Team in the instance, but by now the config is set to allow anyone to create Teams.
    * Discussion if its possible to communicate channels in the same instance but different teams.
        * apparently is not possible yet (at least we couldn't find how to do it)
    * People need to explicitly ask to join to the other Teams, that could create some friction for interactions between swung and fatiando
* Santi started refactoring the parsers in `dependente`: https://github.com/fatiando/dependente/pull/8
    * Make `dependente` work with projects that use `pyproject.toml` only. It currently fails because it cannot find a `setup.cfg` file.
    * Simplify the logic of the parsers by defining two classes: one for `pyproject.toml` and one for `setup.cfg`.
* Started to move Harmonica to `pyproject.toml` only: https://github.com/fatiando/harmonica/pull/438
* Mariana edited BIRS report with a summary of the "Diversity"
* Mariana post on LinkedIn about Lindsey's participation in a virtual symposium
    

## 2023-09-21

**Time:** 00:00 UTC

**Participants:**

* Lu
* Mariana
* Santi

**Quick updates:**

* Gelson Ferreira de Souza Junior gave a talk about his research on micropaleomagnetism
    * In his research he uses Fatiando
    * Check out the talk (in portughese :flag-br:) here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LpwIfzgCw7g
    * Repo with code and preprint: https://github.com/compgeolab/micromag-euler-dipole
* Santi opened a PR in SIMPEG to include gravity inversion using Choclo. Performance is great in every tested scenario which is great :tada: 

**Discussion points:**

* Design of the magnetic forward for prisms:
    * The current function returns the three components of B. 
    * TMI (or total field anomaly) should be calculated separately.
    * We could probably add a function for doing that.
* Harmonica has 6! PRs ready to go, we should merge them and aim for a release soon.
* Mastodon updates in Software Underground
    * The move will start soon
    * Decide what to do with Matrix 
        * how many people use Matrix only? 
        * is it possible to bridge matrix and mattermost?
        * we should talk with people who knows how to do this
    * Tasks for the future:
        * Update website with new links to Mattermost
        * Ask swung to add a new "community" in the same server for Fatiando (instead of having a #fatiando channel)?
* Plans for Choclo: 
    * add magnetic tensor kernels and forward functions
    * design decisions for point sources in spherical coordinates:
        * ask for long, and cosines and sines
        * explain in documentation pages how to use these functions and why we ask those arguments
* Mariana and Santi kept working on BIRS report
* Mariana found a platform for taking decisions in a more horizontal way: 
https://www.loomio.com/membership-organizations

## 2023-09-13

**Time:** 20:00 UTC

**Participants:**

* Mariana 
* Santi 

**Discussion points:**

* Santi started playing with projects: https://github.com/orgs/fatiando/projects/2
* Also, started a project to gather tasks around BIRS 2023: https://github.com/orgs/softwareunderground/projects/2
* Office hours:
    * Santi kept working on some Harmonica PRs
    * Mariana kept working on BIRS report


## 2023-09-07

**Time:** 00:00 UTC

**Participants:**

* Agus
* Lu
* Mariana
* Santi

**Discussion points:**

* Mariana. Emails for new participants in BIRS
* Mariana. Posts about Agustina talk (X, Fosstodon, LinkedIn)
* Lu found an issue related with a PyVista deprecation
    * The fix has been already merged!
* Select PRs for the Harmonica `v0.7.0` milestone
    * Push the one for the proejctions of GRD files to 0.8.0
    * We can also push some stuff around replacing forward with Choclo to 0.8.0 as well
* We can make a Choclo release after Lu finishes the point sources in spherical coordinates
    * Then we'll be able to use them in Harmonica
* Are we moving to mattermost with SWUNG?
    * We can create our own #fatiando channel in Mattermost at the beginning
    * We can ask swung to create a separate "community" for Fatiando in the same server
    * Does it worth having the Matrix community once we move to Mattermost? Is it possible to bridge them?
* AGU Fatiando Talk
    * We got invited, we already submitted the abstract
    * If Santi cannot attend, Lu is willing to give the talk
    * Otherwise, it will be virtual, but in January, which is weird considering that AGU is mid December
* Bonus:
    * Santi started playing with GitHub projects: https://github.com/orgs/fatiando/projects/2


## 2023-08-30

**Time:** 20:00 UTC

**Participants:**

* Mariana
* Santi
* Leo :tada: :tada: :tada:

**Discussion points:**

* BIRS debrief
    * Mariana started gathering links and files
    * Santi started writing the LaTeX report for BIRS. They provided a template. (deadline: mid October)
    * Leo has to accept the invite...
    * Leo will link the latex report with Overleaf to optimize collaborative writing.
    * Should we create a "master" document that groups all stuff done in BIRS, and would allow to continue working on them
    * We should gather all the archive (etherpads, docs, videos etc) under https://birs-2023.softwareunderground.org
        * Santi started archiving stuff: https://github.com/softwareunderground/birs-2023/pull/50
    * We could use the birs website Projects for adding issues related to the workshop
    * Funding for 2024/25? https://fapesp.br/auxilios/organizacao
    * Ask for Lindsey's talk in case it was recorded: ask Lindsey and BIRS
* Choclo achievements :corn: 
     * Santi wrote a new gravity simulation for SimPEG using Choclo and it is between 3 and 5 times faster (compared to what is now in SimPEG)!
     * Started drafting it here: https://github.com/santisoler/simpeg/tree/choclo
    

* Suggestion of the week
    * https://classroom.github.com/ , use example: https://github.com/mat-esp
    :heart: 

Action items:
- [ ]  Create an umbrella project under https://github.com/softwareunderground/birs-2023 for following up on the BIRS action items






## 2023-08-24

**Time:** 00:00 UTC

**Participants:**

* Mariana

**Discussion points:**

* Mariana replied to Github forum question https://github.com/orgs/fatiando/discussions/55#discussioncomment-6755033
* Invitation shared with ResIPy team developers Sina Saneiyan, Guillaume Blanchy and Jimmy Boyd to join Transform 2023. Invitation accepted by Jimmy Boyd.
* First post about BIRS https://www.linkedin.com/posts/mariana-gomez-ni_what-should-one-feel-upon-seeing-a-photo-activity-7100669030620921857-Zsuq?utm_source=share&utm_medium=member_desktop
 
* BIRS content
     Slides 



## 2023-08-16

**Time:** 20:00 UTC

**Participants:**

* Santi

**Discussion points:**

* Not so much to report.
* Idea: pair programming/office hours during the meeting
    * Review Pooch PR: https://github.com/fatiando/pooch/pull/370
    * Fixed tests failing in magnetic vector to angles conversions: https://github.com/fatiando/harmonica/pull/402
    * Work on magnetic forward of prisms: https://github.com/fatiando/harmonica/pull/369
    * Fix docs issue in Harmonica: https://github.com/fatiando/harmonica/pull/428



## 2023-08-10

**Time:** 00:00 UTC

**Participants:**

* Santi
* Mariana

**Discussion points:**

* BIRS debrief
    * What did you liked?
    * What didn't you liked?
* Open avenues after BIRS
    * Santi will go through the documents and compile some roadmaps for SimPEG and Fatiando based on the discussion topics
    * Clarify project overview, mainly by Lu and Matt: https://github.com/fatiando/harmonica/issues/427
    * Leo opened a few issues in Harmonica, mostly tighted to the ideas he shared during his BIRS talk
* Reinbursement procedure
* Mariana wants to help with some of the afterwork of BIRS
    * LaTeX report for BIRS
        * Santi will create a repo for it
    * Clean and backup shared documents
        * We should publish them in a repo
        * Tink how can we give authorship to participants
    * Publish photos and videos on website
    * Create certificates for attendance?
        * Only if someone asked...
    * BIRS requires to give them some feedback
        * Santi can start a repo for that
        * Ping Mariana when it's created
* Mariana posted about the EGU blogpost on Twitter and Linkedin
   * Adapted from the same text Santi published on Mastodon: https://fosstodon.org/@santisoler@scicomm.xyz/110787932776308255

## 2023-07-13

**Time:** 00:00 UTC

**Participants:**

* Mariana
* Matt
* Santi

**Discussion points:**

* Matt Pr on bugfix
* Santi PR on fixing check in tesseroid forward
* Lu:
    * PR in Harmonica implementing point sources using Choclo
    * PR in Choclo implementing spherical coordinates point sources
* Question about design of forward of point sources in spherical 
* Inverting large data with big meshes
    * Santi need to share link to paper  with fast forward modelling of grav and mag: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jappgeo.2019.04.009 (finally)
    * Paper that Lu shared: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/10174732?casa_token=S-SxdKXZU3gAAAAA:FpMlQmY6sq_5SgcEu8mVlMGtHzY9i3wNjlkisuTgK6XN7ZPGOg7nyJFbtVC0ASTPK2Rdl4N8Hw
* Pseudo gravity discussions
    * https://github.com/fatiando/harmonica/pull/299#discussion_r1056008488
    * We decided to follow Blakely's description of the method
    * If we need to set a ratio between density and sus, we should probably set is as an optional argument, defaulting to 1 probably
* BIRS details
    * Virtual participants experience
    * Talks will be recorded
    * Talks titles will be posted in the website as soon as we have them
    * Questions will be handled to virtual paticipants in advance, so they can have local discussions (if possible) and write down thoughts in a shared document
* Motivation statement and values. Mariana finally opened the Issue she promissed! 8 months ago :tada:
    * https://github.com/fatiando/community/issues/114

## 2023-06-30

**Time:** 00:00 UTC

**Participants:**

* Mariana
* Lu
* Santi
* junietoc

**Discussion points:**

* Santi got invited to write a blogpost at EGU Geodynamics blog
* Things to do before the workshop
    * pseudo-gravity filter
    * launch Projects for Fatiando
    * make harmonica's gravity point source use Choclo kernels (at least the Cartesian ones for now)
    * Add forward gravity fucntions for point sources in spherical coordinates in Choclo
    * Long term:
        * planting inversions: harvest module in the old fatiando
        * bathymetry, surface, basin inversions
* Paper on large inversions with gridded observation points
    * Santi will share the link to the paper
* Transform 2023 Tutorial
    * Read this: https://softwareunderground.org/t23-instructor-info
    * Soft deadline: end of July
    * Hard deadline: 4 September
    * 90 minutes
    * Idea:
        * Pick a use case
        * Some place in North Australia or West Australia
        * Have both gravity and magnetics
    * Make a Harmonica release before the tutorial
    * Include datasets in Ensaio
* Discuss weather we want to become a [NumFOCUS affiliate project](https://numfocus.org/sponsored-projects/affiliated-projects)
> * Please provide a summary description of your project in a few sentences:
> * Task Why do you want your project to join NumFOCUS?This question is required. 
> * How does your project relate to or integrate with the existing ecosystem of NumFOCUS tools?This question is required. 
> * Describe how your project furthers the NumFOCUS mission:This question is required. https://numfocus.org/community/mission
> * How many active contributors does your project currently have?This question is required.
> * Any comments youâ€™d like to make on the number of your active contributors:
> 
> * What is your project doing to attract and/or mentor new contributors and maintainers?This question is required. 
> 
> * Where do you host conversations about project development and governance (e.g. mailing lists, forums, etc.), and how many participants do you have?
> 
> * What license(s) does your project currently use?This question is required. 
> 
> * Projects must adopt the NumFOCUS Code of Conduct or one similar in spirit. Please tell us how you plan to meet this requirement:
> https://numfocus.org/code-of-conduct
> * Your Name (First & Last):This question is required. *
> * Questions or Comments:

* BIRS updates
    * Getting closer
    * Santi joined swung board meeting to talk about the proposal
* Some activity around Pooch in last week 
* Santi found a bug in Harmonica's tesseroid forward model
    * One of the checks eats too much memory, making it impossible to run the forward
    * The good thing is the fix is not that hard to make: replace Numpy code for Numba


## 2023-06-21

**Time:** 20:00 UTC

**Participants:**

* Mariana
* Santi

**Discussion points:**

* Pair programming with Mariana and Santi
    * Discussion on best ways to improve Fatiando tutorials
    * Improve documentation, remove [Binder due to access issues](https://blog.jupyter.org/mybinder-org-reducing-capacity-c93ccfc6413f)
    * We opened a few issues on [fatiando/tutorials](https://www.github.com/fatiando/tutorials)
* Reconsidering using GitHub Projects in Fatiando
    * Leo has been experimenting with it for CompGeoLab
    * Might be a nice tool, specially for maintainers
    * Umbrella Issues involves a lot of manual work, only limited issues can be pinned, etc...
    * With projects we can filter issues by project, asignee, status, etc

## 2023-06-07

**Time:** 20:00 UTC

**Participants:**
* Santiago
* Mariana
* Agus

**Discussion points:**

* [Mariana request](https://github.com/orgs/fatiando/discussions/113) in:
Solutions proposed by Santi:
    -https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/annotating-the-web/
    -https://web.hypothes.is/
 

## 2023-06-01

**Time:** 00:00 UTC

**Participants:**
* Lu
* Vinicius
* Mariana
* Santi

**Discussion points:**
* Onboarding Vinicius. PhD student in Australia working with magnetic and gravity data
* BIRS organization
    *  Create time zone pods for virtual discussions
    * Check out the answers from the Community Survey from last year to see what the replies were
* Transform 2023 tutorial
    * Lu is willing to do it! :purple_heart: 
    * Mariana commit to help with the logistics of the Transform tutorial but no with core content since she is learning about Harmonica yet.
* Change all the 14:00 UTC meetings to 00:00 UTC 
    * Update calendar
    * Publish announcement in forum, and social media :heavy_check_mark: 

## 2023-05-24

**Time:** 20:00 UTC

**Participants:**
* Lu
* Vinicius
* Mariana

**Discussion points:**

* Mariana's question about deprecation cycles
    * https://semver.org/
 (major, minor, patch)
* Move meeting time to 00:00 GMT
* Verde v1.8.0 was released :tada:
* Choclo v0.1.0 was released :tada:
* Santi was playing with GH Projects
    * Seemed too complicated
    * _Umbrella_ issues sounds a simpler solution: https://github.com/fatiando/harmonica/issues/406
    * Create a new label for `projects`
* Implementing forward models in Harmonica using Choclo
    * Prisms gravity: [#400](https://github.com/fatiando/harmonica/pull/400)
    * Prisms magnetics: [#369](https://github.com/fatiando/harmonica/pull/369)
    * Dipoles: [#414](https://github.com/fatiando/harmonica/pull/414)
* BIRS event has a website: https://birs-2023.softwareunderground.org
    * Ideas for the workshop from within Fatiando?
    * What our community want to discuss, solve?
    * What are our needs?
    * Mariana's fantasy for a documentary/podcast about why open science

## 2023-05-03

**Time:** 

* 00:00 GMT

**Participants:**

* Lu
* Federico Esteban
* Mariana
* Santiago

**Discussion points:**

* BIRS event in July
    * https://www.birs.ca/events/2023/2-day-workshops/23w2014
    * Own website comming soon
    * We have limited slots for in-person, but we have plenty of room for virtual participants
    * If you want to participate (virtually or in-person), let Santi know!
    * Questions about organizing "something" pre and post workshop to make the most of that loong trip!
    * Mariana asked a little bit about how BIRS will go and its organization
        * topics to discuss during those days
* Choclo with a lot of PRs
    * singular points for gravity tensor components and magnetic fields
        * what should we do with magnetic fields in the interior of the prism
    * Release coming soon?
* Harmonica
    * Santi stated working on incorporating Choclo into Harmonica:
        * Use choclo for gravity fields of prisms, and extend to all acceleration and tensor components
        * Add magnetic field forward for prisms
    * Agustina started coding functions for converting magnetic vector to intensity, inclination and declination (and viceversa)
        * Inclination is defined positive downwards, while the magnetic field components are defined in easting, northing, upward system
* Lu wants to implement the geometry inversion
    * Matt has some code for geometry inversion
    * Previously we mentioned host this potentially new library inversion in https://github.com/fatiando/deeplook/issues rather than in Harmonica
* Lu is working on 2d modelling
    * Example used with students https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/LL-Geo/GEOS5505/HEAD (which uses https://github.com/fatiando/moulder)


## 2023-04-12

**Time:** 

* 20:00 GMT

**Participants:**

* Santiago
* Agustina

**Discussion points:**

* Fatiando talk in Spanish, University Buenos Aires, Argentina
    - April 19, 6 PM UTC
    - Live on YT: https://www.youtube.com/@igeba9451/streams
    - Some information: https://igeba.gl.fcen.uba.ar/content/charlas-2023
    - Mariana posts on Twitter, Linkedin and #fatiando Swug's Slack
* Magnetic forward modelling
    - A lot of people asking for it in our forum and in Harmonica issues
    - Santi started a draft a while ago, might be nice to retake it: [369](https://github.com/fatiando/harmonica/pull/369)

## 2023-03-29

**Time:** 

* 20:00 GMT

**Participants:**

* Santi
* Agustina
* Mariana
* Matt 

**Discussion points:**

* Mariana Question's:
    - Question about coordiante systems
        - Differences between sphericals and geodetic --> suggestion check HofmannWellen
    - Leo suggestion in Slack https://github.com/1Password/1password-teams-open-source (nobody seems interested at the moment, we will give you a try next time)

* Problem in Github reported by Agustina https://github.blog/2023-03-23-we-updated-our-rsa-ssh-host-key
    - If you were already using ed25519 keys (instead of RSA)
    - https://medium.com/risan/upgrade-your-ssh-key-to-ed25519-c6e8d60d3c54
* BIRS event got accepted!
    * 28-30 July in Banff, Canada
    * More details soon!
* Thinking about creating projects in Harmonica
    * We talked about this before, but Santi never finds the time to do so
    * Topics
        * FFT-filters
            * Pseudogravity
            * Including padding to the transformation functions
            * Handling grids with nans?
        * Forward modelling
            * Magnetic fields of dipoles and prisms (all already in Choclo)
            * Magnetic fields for tesseroids
            * Missing gravity fields in some geometries (tensor components)
            * Extend magnetic fields to prism and tesseroid layers
        * Planting inversions
            * Include a simple 3d mesh
            * Implement the algoritm (Leo should have some draft)
            *  Draft here: 
* Update the website:
    - In "About" the idea is to put the last videos, talks and papers
    - Add Choclo to the website: yes!
        - We need a logo
    - Plan for a future release of Choclo





## 2023-03-15

**Time:** 

* 20:00 GMT

**Participants:**

* Agustina
* Matt
* Mariana
* Santi

**Discussion points:**

* KEGS Talk
    * Santi will share link to vide
         - Suggestion about new features
    * Would be nice to upload it to our YT channel
        - Link to santi talk: https://github.com/fatiando/2023-kegs
        - After that we can post in social network
* Governance:
    * New role: Package Developer
    * Developers
    * Maintainers
* Pooch
    * Released!
    * Dominic talk at a conference
        - He has a video or something to post? 
        - Link to slides: https://github.com/fatiando/pooch/pull/325#issuecomment-1447007210
* Harmonica
    * Released!
    * Future goals
        - Make the next release on September with:
            - magnetic forward models
            - Finish pseudogravity filters
            - use choclo for all the forward models
    * How to handle grids that have "holes" (nans)
        * Write example
        * Maybe handle that directly within the function with an optional argument?
* Inversion:
    * Create a new library for it and no put it in Harmonica
        - The name: https://github.com/fatiando/deeplook/issues
    * Start with geometric inversions
* Meeting time:
    * Maybe we want to work on a meeting time that suits Lu and people in the Pacific Time
    * We miss Lu in the meetings :sob: 
* Transform
    * Ideas from Matt Hall in SWUNG Slack


## 2023-02-09

**Time:** 

* 20:00 GMT :point_left: we changed this week time

**Participants:**

* Rodrigo
* Agustina
* Mariana

**Discussion points:**

* Maybe we have a new user: Rodrigo :tada: 
    - He started a master with gravity and sismica data to analyze seamonts in the coco plate (North America subduction zone)
    - We shared Orlando Alvarez Google scholar profile (papers)
    - We presented Fatiando and explained how Fatiando can help him and invited to participate in the meetings 
* Mariana and Agustina talked about general things

## 2023-02-01

**Time:** 

* 20:00 GMT 

**Participants:**

* Santi
* Agustina
* Mariana
* Matt

**Discussion points:**

* Matrix bridge with Slack is apparently broken again
    * We had an update on the Matrix room, maybe that triggered the disconection
* Poll on interface of forward modelling in Harmonica
    * https://github.com/orgs/fatiando/discussions/90
* Santi started designing magnetic forward modelling in Harmonica
    * https://github.com/fatiando/harmonica/pull/369
    * I've been trying out a new interface for the forward models. One function for each forward, ditch the `field` argument.
        * `prism_magnetic_field`: returns a tuple with the tree components of the magnetic field
        * `prism_magnetic_easting`: returns easting component
        * `prism_magnetic_northing`: returns northing component
        * `prism_magnetic_upward`: returns upward component
    * Pros:
        * We get autocompletion.
        * We can avoid implementing a dispatcher
    * Cons:
        * We have a little bit of repeated code. It could be solved, but I would rather repeat oursevles than make the code more complex.
        * I wrote a private function for computing any component. The public functions for each component just call this private function. Is it too complex?
    * Opinions?
        * better solution:
            * Have only two functions: one that returns the three components and another one that returns just one, selected through a `component` or `field` argument
* FFT filters by Lu
    * Santi think they are ready, except for the pseudogravity one that might need some discussion
    * Possible plan: move that filter to a new PR and merge the ones that are ready
* Fatiando presentation at [KEGS](https://www.kegsonline.org/) (Canadian Exploration Geophysical Society)
    * Event happening in Toronto on March 4
* Discussion in using type annotations in Pooch
https://github.com/fatiando/pooch/issues/330
    * Maybe we could ask Ryan to draft some annotations in a few functions of Pooch and see if we like it
    * Would love to hear Leo's input on this subject