# Fatiando Development Calls 2024

📱 **Join the video call:** https://meet.jit.si/fatiando-a-terra

📅 **Shared calendar:** https://www.fatiando.org/calendar

> **IMPORTANT**: Everyone is required to follow our 
> [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/fatiando/community/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)
> when participating in the Fatiando community. Please review it carefully.

Development calls are **open to everyone**! Here we discuss project development, socialize, and do some live coding from time to time.

**Everyone is encouraged to participate and edit the notes below.**

--------------------------------------------------------------

## 2024-01-18

**Time:** 17:00 UTC

**Participants:**

* Santi
* India
* Mariana
* Leo
* Agustina

**Quick updates:**

* Merged the forward functions for magnetic prisms: https://github.com/fatiando/harmonica/pull/448
    * Also changed the expected shape of the `magnetization` vector to better integrate with `hm.magnetic_angles_to_vec`
    * Plan to start working on the same changes for the forward fucntions for dipoles
* Merged the update for the forward of point sources using Choclo: https://github.com/fatiando/harmonica/pull/422
    * Thanks to Lu for the work!
    * It might be the first Fatiando PR merged from Antarctica! :penguin: 
        * Would make a nice post on social media!
* Opened issue to improve error message while reading a corrupted Oasis Montaj grd file: https://github.com/fatiando/harmonica/issues/451
* Example running Fatiando and PyGMT on Colab with conda: https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1rfXOt4NSgmnU5XknLoq0nQNqM5j0FzY7?usp=sharing
* New package: Magali! For processing and inversion of magnetic microscopy. 
    * Currently on my lab org (https://github.com/compgeolab/magali) but want to move to Fatiando. Objections? We talked about this before but just confirming.
    * MSc student Yago will arrive in São Paulo in the next month to work on this as his dissertation.
    * Will generate PRs in Harmonica as well (like Euler Deconvolution).
* New article citing Fatiando: https://jurnal.stageofsleman.id/index.php/jsgs/article/download/11/12
    * Mariana sent an invitation to the corresponding author to join us in the community calls
* Promoting [Dominic Kempf](https://github.com/dokempf) to Developer on Pooch:
    * Has been very active and enthusiastic.
    * We need more hands in the project.
    * Leo will email and CC council to invite.
* Add `MAINTAINERS.md` file to repos listing maintainers
    * That file should live in the repo for each package
    * Leo will update the GitHub teams
* India shared and idea for generating regular grids at angles, useful for "diagonal" flight lines
    * It would be nice to see an issue with more details about it
    * One possible implementation would be to generate the grid and then rotate the coordinate system

## 2024-01-04

**Time:** 17:00 UTC

**Participants:**

* Santi
* India 
* Mariana
* Leo

**Quick updates:**

* Santi went to AGU
    * Met Matt Tankersely in person! Matt had a poster, and a lightning talk in the same session as me. Was great to talk about Fatiando and also see his presentation mentioning the same tools.
    * Met Blazej Bucha. He contributed to Boule. Great work on spherical harmonics: https://github.com/blazej-bucha.
    * Lunch with Fernando Perez, Jim (2i2c) and Rowan and Steve (Curvenote)
    * Geolatinas gatherings!
    * Met Yago and Suzana (Yago will start as Master Student with Leo)
    * Met Carlos Alberto Moreno Chaves, from USP.
    * Ines Sanchez Rodriguez, Hydrology. opencollaborationhydrology.com. Got invited to participate in a podcast about open-source. It'll probably be in Spanish.
    * Hélène Le Mével. Awesome inversions of gravity satelite data before, during and after the eruption of Hunga Tonga.
        * Paper is out: https://www.science.org/doi/10.1126/sciadv.adh3156
    * Tasha Snow. CryoCloud: https://www.cryocloud.io/. Great talk about why open science!
        * Intelectual generosity
        * Intelectual humility
        * Right to participate in science (democratizing it)
        * Everyone deserves dignity and respect
        * Open Science is a process, not a product!
    * Project Pythia.
    * Center of Open Science: https://www.cos.io/
    * Folks from NumFOCUS were there: Xarray, Dask, etc. Ryan Abernathey, Deepak Cherian.
    * Nigel Rees. Haven't got the chance to meet him, but he emailed me about the Fatiando poster. Matt had a talk with him.
    * Jiajia Sun. Interested in having magnetic equivalent sources in Harmonica.
    * I gave away a lot of Fatiando stickers. Even in the plane: the student that was sitting next to me knew about it :rolling_on_the_floor_laughing: 
        * Sarai Montañez Muñoz
* Faster terrain correction by block averaging.
    * Santi discussed some implementation with Craig before Banff.
    * We kept talking about it with Matt.
    * After AGU I started drafting an implementation: https://github.com/santisoler/harmonica/blob/prism-layer-fast-forward/harmonica/_forward/prism_layer.py
* Plan to start adding kernels in Choclo for magnetic gradiometry
* Discussion on Harmonica Issues for better defaults for equivalent sources:
    * Santi will tackle the removal of the `depth_type`
    * India will tackle the better defaults for `window_size` and `depth`
* Leo: Started playing with spherical harmonics. SHTools is a bit large and overkill when we just want simple synthesis of a low degree model (like a lot of magnetic models). Plus, there is no package I found that can do the inversion part for scattered data (SHTools only does it for grids). I'll need this for class and for some projects so will start coding something and maybe get a student involved. **Should this be part of Harmonica or its own package?** The surface harmonics can be used for other things and the associated Legendre function calculation as well (scipy has it but it wraps an ugly fortran code and the normalization isn't very clear). But otherwise, this fits with the equivalent source stuff in Harmonica.
    * It could live in Harmonica!
* Improving tests for Pooch downloaders:
    * Right now Pooch's tests rely on third-party servers being available when testing
    * If those servers go down, Pooch tests start failing
    * Idea: mock httpservers with `pytest-httpserver` for testing purposes.
    * Keep the current tests, but maybe make them optional
    * We should **open an issue** for creating an sftp server using pytest just to test it
* Design choices for forwards and physical equivalent sources:
    * Merge magnetic forward functions in Harmonica to a single one, that either returns a single array, or a tuple of arrays
        * Those should take a `field` argument that could be `b_e`, `b_n`, `b_u` or `b` for the full vector, required argument.
    * Constructing the equivalent sources takes regular parameters plus the inc,dec of the sources
    * Fitting would be nice as ``
    * Design draft for the `fit` and `predict` methods for the eq mag sources
        ```
        class EquivalentMagSources:
            def __init__(self, ...):
                ...
                
            def fit(self, tfa=None, b_ee=None, ...):
                ...

            def predict(self, coordinates, field):
                ...
            
        eqs = hm.EquivalentMagSources(
            depth=..., 
            inc_sources: float =..., 
            dec_sources: float =...,
        )
        eqs.fit(
            tfa=(coordinates, data, weights, inclination, declination),
            b_ee=(coordinates, data, weights),
            b_nn=(coordinates, data, weights),
        )
        b_ee = eqs.predict(coordiantes, data, field="b_ee")
        (b_e, b_n, b_u) = eqs.predict(coordiantes, data, field="b")
        tfa = hm.total_field_anomaly((b_e, b_n, b_u), inc, dec)
        ```
        
* We might want to check if `hm.magnetic_angles_to_vec` work well with inc and dec as floats and amplitude as array.
    * Write tests!
* The mag forward modelling functions take magnetizations as 2d array with each magnetic moment per row. We should change this to accept a tuple with the three components:
    ```
    dipole_magnetic(
        coordinates,
        dipoles,
        magnetic_moments=(magnetization_e, magnetization_n, magnetization_u),
        parallel=True,
        dtype="float64",
        disable_checks=False,
    ): 
    ```
    * This makes it consistent with `hm.magnetic_angles_to_vec` and with how coordinates are handled.
    
* Leo: Trying to find a good magnetic microscopy dataset to add to Ensaio. Will clean up the one we used [in this paper](https://doi.org/10.31223/X5QD5Z) because it's relatively good with a bunch of well behaved dipoles. Great for running grid-related examples in Harmonica since the data is on a regular grid at constant height from the very start. Would also be good for an Euler Deconvolution example since they're all very close to dipoles.

