# Fatiando Development Calls 2021

ðŸ“± **Join the video call:** https://jitsi.softwareunderground.org/FatiandoATerraMeetings

ðŸ“… **Shared calendar:** http://calendar.fatiando.org

> **IMPORTANT**: Everyone is required to follow our 
> [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/fatiando/community/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)
> when participating in the Fatiando community. Please review it carefully.

Development calls are **open to everyone**! Here we discuss routine project development: implementation details, code refactoring, maintenance tasks, documentation, etc. Discussions tend to be **more technical** than our Community Calls.

**Everyone is encouraged to edit the notes below.**

--------------------------------------------------------------

## 2021-10-01

**Time:** 14:00 (UTC)

**Participants** 

* Leo
* Lu
* Federico
* Santiago

**Discussion points:**

* Boule:
    * Leo may have a student working on implementing ellisoid gravitation equations (inside and outside the ellipsoid)
    * Will try to make a push on this to get it ready for a new release
    * Things to do:
        * Revert back to our Makefile/conda/etc workflow instead of nox. Turns out it complicates things more than needed and creates a bit of a disconnect with other projects.
        * Triage the current PRs and see what can be merged and what needs some work. There are some that may be outdated and need some re-thinking.
        * Finish looking at Lu's coordiante system tutorial
* Community:
    * Add another point of contact to the CoC: https://github.com/fatiando/contributing/issues/29
    * Too many repositories:
        * https://github.com/fatiando/meeting-notes with info on call times and archived notes
        * https://github.com/fatiando/maintenance with maintenance tasks but not the actual maintainers guide
        * https://github.com/fatiando/.github/ Issue and PR templates for the entire organization.
        * https://github.com/fatiando/contributing with our contributing, authorship, and maintainer guides + CoC
        * **Could we merge these into just 1 or 2?** 
            * Proposal:
                * Keep `.github` with issue and PR templates (also where the front page readme needs to live)
                * Merge `meeting-notes`, `maintenance`, `contributing` into a single `community` repo. There may be some broken links but GitHub redirects when renaming repos.
            * Accepted. Leo will implement these changes later today.
* Pooch:
    * Release v1.5.2 once https://github.com/fatiando/pooch/pull/266 is merged
* Publication of Analytics on Santi's Thesis
    * Will use the analytics data for the website about number of visitors and location (all anonymous)
* Website analytics:
    * Leo is looking at Plausible
    * Would be great to self-host on [software underground](https://softwareunderground.org/)
    * Can be shared by other OSS projects
    * Leo will post about it in the `#swung_org` channel to see if they bring this up in the next board meeting
    * Self-hosting docs: https://plausible.io/docs/self-hosting

## 2021-09-24

**Time:** 14:00 (UTC)

**Participants** (please add your name)

* Leo
* Santi
* Federico

**Discussion points:**

* Santi added cards for the authors of each project: https://www.fatiando.org/about/
    * Start with Harmonica
    * Download images and convert them to .jpg? Check if they are really that big.
* Enable `pooch.retrieve` to download to the default Downloads folder
    * It's not worth doing
    * Might be headache to test
    * Very likely to be source of future problems
    * Best compromise:
        * Write a `get_default_downloads_dir()` or something that returns the path to the default Downloads folder.
* Bug report on Pooch: https://github.com/fatiando/pooch/issues/264
* Add support for LZW decompression: https://github.com/fatiando/pooch/issues/263
* Variable density tesseroids:
    * Repeat code it's ok for a first implementation that doesn't hit efficiency
    * We can iterate in the future.
* Gridding bathymetry data
    * Finding another set of data (easier to get or with more coverage) that could correlate with bathymetry.


## 2021-09-17

**Time:** 14:00 (UTC)

**Participants** (please add your name)

* Leo
* Lu
* Federico

**Discussion points:**

* New sample datasets in https://github.com/fatiando/rockhound-data:
    * We have:
        * Bathymetry https://github.com/fatiando/rockhound-data/pull/2
        * Global gravity, topography, geoid: https://github.com/fatiando/rockhound-data/pull/4
        * Ground gravity (Souther Africa + Australia)
        * LIDAR (not incorporated but Leo found a nice one from Canada)
    * Need:
        * Airborne gravity (BAS and GRAV-D)
        * Magnetics (BAS - ADMAP, GA) https://doi.pangaea.de/10.1594/PANGAEA.892724 ; GA: https://portal.ga.gov.au/persona/gadds
        * GPS (Leo write UNAVCO about license) https://doi.pangaea.de/10.1594/PANGAEA.889923 (This one with vertical velocity only)
        * Radar IceBridge https://nsidc.org/data/icebridge/data_summaries.html
* Organization profile READMEs: https://twitter.com/github/status/1438842052117204993?s=19



## 2021-09-10

**Time:** 14:00 (UTC)

**Participants** (please add your name)

* Leo
* Santi
* Agustina

**Discussion points:**

* Harmonica housekeeping
    * Add option to set EQLHarmonic points to constant depth [#236](https://github.com/fatiando/harmonica/pull/236)
    * Generate version string on `_version.py` on build [#237](https://github.com/fatiando/harmonica/pull/237)
    * Allow prism_layer to take xarray objects as arguments [#243](https://github.com/fatiando/harmonica/pull/243) < **Merge first**
    * Transform require_numba decorator into a global variable [#245](https://github.com/fatiando/harmonica/pull/245)
    * Leo will review all of these after the meeting
* Refactoring Tesseroids [#244](https://github.com/fatiando/harmonica/pull/244) 
    * Remove niche arguments and set them as global variables
    * Small fixes on docstrings
    * Refactor code to follow pylint guidelines
    * Enable parallelization through Numba: running 4-5 faster on my 6 cores CPU :tada:
    * Parallelization can be turned off through `parallel=False`, following the same interface as the other forward models
* Working on the implementation of variable density tesseroids in Harmonica
    * Run density-based discretization as a preprocessing step at Python level
    * Use `scipy.optimize.minimize_scalar` to maximize the absolute max difference between normalized density and straight line, instead of defining an array of radii to explore (see [Soler et al., 2019](https://doi.org/10.31223/osf.io/3548g))


**Quick updates:**

* New fatiando.org design: https://github.com/fatiando/website/pull/28 (comments and suggestions welcome)
    * Agustina showed how to use the Firefox developer tools to find accessibility issues
    * There are many :white_frowning_face: 
    * But at least it's not worse than the current website
    * Will merge the PR as is
    * Agustina will open a few issues about accessibility so we can keep track
    * Follow up PRs will fix these


## 2021-09-03

**Time:** 14:00 (UTC)

**Participants** (please add your name)

* Leo
* Santiago
* Lu

**Discussion points:**

* Assign more formal roles within Fatiando:
    * Helps clarify who is who and who is responsible for what. Right now, it's not really clear unless you look through discussions and try to infer who makes decisions.
    * We could really use a "social media manager" (handling twitter/linkedin/SwUng/etc) and a "community manager" (help setup forum, welcome people to slack, lead community calls) for example.
    * What roles do we need initially?
        * Social media
            * Releases
            * New features
            * Patches
            * Talks
            * Events
            * Examples
            * Engage in conversations
            * Highlight publications using the project
            * Promote projects in the ecosystem
        * Website
            * Maintain up dated
            * Add/remove people from lists
            * Redesign (one time thing)
        * Community lead 
            * Answer issues and prs quickly
            * Probalby overlap with maintainers but not all maintainers should be community leads
            * Compile list of new issues, stale issues, PRs, etc for the weekly meetings
        * Maintainers (for each project)
            * Reviewing and merging PRs
            * Will have full admin rights to the repo
            * Make releases (compile changelog, Zenodo, etc)
        * Contributor (for each project)
            * Code
            * Docs
            * Answer questions
            * Largely a list of contributors from GitHub (AUTHORS.md?)
    * What is the process for gaining responsibility?
        * Good amount of engagement and contributions is a requirement
        * Need somewhat regular contributions
        * Maintainer initiates discussion with rest of mainteners to invite someone for promotion
        * Promote early rather than late
    * What is the process for stepping down from roles?
        * Notify the team
        * Find a replacement (if possible)
        * Go be happy
    * Include time off in the document:
        * Periods where nothing happens for a little while (e.g. end of the year)
    * Draft a governance document.
        * Use SimPEG for inspiration: https://github.com/simpeg/community/blob/main/governance.md
        * Specify expectations for each role
        * Santi can reach out Geolatinas for input
        * Where?
            * Website: page saying who is who and linking to the governance document
            * https://github.com/fatiando/contributing: document with what the roles and processes are but not who is occupying them
    * Would allow us to have a team/gallery to showcase who works on fatiando.
        * Like this maybe: https://docs.generic-mapping-tools.org/dev/devdocs/team.html
        * Source: https://github.com/GenericMappingTools/gmt/pull/5589/files#diff-0048a43cdc8224c75c38cce087aca2e653311c65140402916c132ae83ba1f817R26
* Functions that take "arrays" should also support `DataArray`, pandas `Series`, etc? Should we make it explicit only when we truly support them?
    * See https://github.com/fatiando/verde/issues/330 and https://github.com/fatiando/harmonica/pull/242
    * Use `np.asarray` and add tests for this with `pytest.parametrize` to check that it works



**Quick updates:**

* Old documentation pages now all redirect to https://legacy.fatiando.org (v0.5 docs)
* Mailing list is deactivated and there is a message telling people to go to Slack
* `fatiando/website` now uses `main` as the default branch. Update local clones with: 
  ```
  git branch -m master main
  git fetch origin
  git branch -u origin/main main
  git remote set-head origin -a
  ```

## 2021-08-27

**Time:** 14:00 (UTC)

**Participants** (please add your name)

* Leo
* Agustina
* Lu
* Santiago

**Discussion points:**

* Keep guides (contributor, maintenance, etc) only in the [`fatiando/contributing`](https://github.com/fatiando/contributing) repository.
    * Right now, we have a complicated setup that pushes changes to the files in this repo to the other repositories. 
    * This relies on TravisCI, which we largely don't use anymore.
    * No one had the time to go in and update to GitHub Actions.
    * It doesn't allow projects to include custom changes to the files (since it would cause conflicts).
    * Proposal:
        * The files on repositories will remain
        * They will have a small message linking to the original files on `contributing`
        * They can include extra instructions that are only for that particular project
        * Removes the need for the CI setup in `contributing`
    * Having a lot of stuff on the project creates barriers to entry. 
    * Authorship guidelines should be easily findable
    * System of layers (from mainteiners to new users):
        * Maintenance
        * Contributing + authorship
        * Documentation, tutorials, how to contact devs and other users
    * Do we want:
        * 1 central document with links to it on all repos
        * no central document and individual guides on all repos
    * Proposal 2.0:
        * Kill the central document and it's TravisCI
        * This will break the Welcome Bot
    * TODO:
        * Open a issue on `fatiando/contributing`
        * May need to copy the welcome bot script from `fatiando/.github` to individual repos
* People asking help through mailing list while trying to install `fatiando` on Python2.7
    * Probably they are getting instructions for installation and how to contact us from fatiando.org/v0.5
    * Should we add a big disclaimer on the fatiando.org/v0.5 website about it being deprecated?
    * TODO:
        * Stop serving everything below v0.5 and also dev/
        * Serve 0.5 under legacy.fatiando.org
        * Add a banner to the 0.5 pages point to the main Fatiando website
        * Future: Add banners to old versions of the docs in all libraries. See how numpy and matplotlib do this.
            * Create an issue in `fatiando/maintenance` for this
        * Disable posting to the mailing list. Maybe automated reply might be worth the effort. https://support.google.com/groups/answer/9792589?hl=en

**Quick updates:**

* Pooch v1.5.0 released! https://www.fatiando.org/pooch/latest/changes.html#version-1-5-0
* New LinkedIn page: https://www.linkedin.com/company/fatiando/
* Be more careful when moving internal functions. They can break a lot of code: https://github.com/fatiando/pooch/issues/252

## 2021-08-06

**Time:** 14:00 (UTC)

**Participants** (please add your name)

* Leo Uieda
* Santi Soler
* Lu Li

**Discussion points:**

* Fast inverse square root: https://www.lomont.org/papers/2003/InvSqrt.pdf
    * We calculate `1 / sqrt(x)` quite often in gravmag modelling and equivalent sources.
    * This is usually the largest bottle neck for point sources
    * This method is supposed to be 4-5x faster than doing `sqrt` and then division
    * Has some crazy hacks and may be hard to generalize (implementation depends on number of bits and float format)
    * Could be a very impactful addition to [Bottleneck](https://bottleneck.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html) or [numbagg](https://github.com/numbagg/numbagg)
    * Probably not for the faint of heart :slightly_smiling_face: 
* Redesign of the `grid` method on Verde gridders (PR [#326](https://github.com/fatiando/verde/pull/326))
    * Let `grid` to accept the `coordinates` of a preexisting grid (2d meshgrids or 1d arrays)
        * Benefits:
            * BaseGridder can be easily generalized to any number of coordinates. EQLs for example, with `easting`, `northing`, `upwards`
    * Proposal: deprecate `spacing`, `shape`, `region`: don't create the coordinates inside `grid`
        * Benefits:
            * Users can inspect the coordinates before running the predictions
            * Simplifies the arguments of `grid`
            * _Do a single task and do it well_
    * Name of the `coordinates` argument: `coordinates` vs `grid_coords`
        * Argument should be `coordinates`
        * But variables in examples should be `grid_coords` since there is likely already a `coordinates` variable
    * TODO:
        * Issue 1:
            * Add the coordinates argument to `grid` but make it optional for now (Santi has a PR for this already)
            * Include a `FututeWarning` that things will change in 2.0
        * Issue 2:
            * Update the examples to use `grid_coordinates` and pass them in to `grid` with a warning that this will be the only way in the future
        * Issue 3:
            * Remove the arguments of `grid_coordinates` from `grid` 
            * Make `coordinates` a required argument
        * Open issues for these things
* Verde
    * Start a new `dev` branch for deprecations and backward-breaking changes
        * Name: `dev-2.0`
        * Make PRs that cause breaking changes against this branch.
        * https://github.com/fatiando/verde/tree/dev-2.0
    * Which git workflow should we use for it?
        * Should `dev` be always updated with `master`? (would create a lot of 'Merge...' commits)
        * or we should merge `master` on `dev` right before the next major release? (we might face conflicts and some bugs right before the release)
        * `git rebase` instead of `git merge` to avoid merge commits.
        * Probably do it all when we will release to avoid prolonging our suffering 
    * TODO:
        * Create a milestone for 2.0
        * Create issue for removing FutureWarnings form the code
        * Assign existing issues to the milestone
        * :white_frowning_face: https://github.com/fatiando/verde/milestone/5
* Is `conda install -c conda-forge verde harmonica boule pooch rockhound` working fine?
    * Deactivate the mailing list once and for all
    * Create CI job (weekly?) that setups miniconda and Anaconda, installs everything at the latest version, and run tests.
    * Could be a new repo just for this or https://github.com/fatiando/maintenance/
* Documentation https://hackmd.io/wPxyX6c2ROGjcMvxDL0TmQ?view
    * See https://documentation.divio.com/
    * Documentation sources are here: https://github.com/fatiando/harmonica/tree/master/doc
    * To add a new page:
        1. Create a `.rst` file in that folder. 
        2. Add the new file to the `toctree` entry in `index.rst`
    * Focus on theory side of the gravity disturbance
    * Open the pull request as soon as you have something (anything) which helps when asking for help or feedback

**Quick updates:**

* Abstract submitted for our AGU2021 talk: https://github.com/fatiando/agu2021 
    * Leo will be touch later in the year when the program is finalized and we know exactly what to present.
    * Likely to record a video to acompany the live talk. Contributions from the community would be very welcome (video, audio, images, etc)
    * kdenlive can apparently make subtitltes from a script. Can embed into mp4 and youtube/figshare pick it up.
        * https://mastodon.uy/web/statuses/106704380721771095

## 2021-07-23

**Time:** 14:00 (UTC)

**Participants** (please add your name)

* Leo Uieda
* Santi Soler
* Lu Li

**Discussion points:**

* AGU talk
    * Leo was invited to give a talk at a session
    * Asked to talk about the project and also touch on the maintenance/sustainability
    * Outline our process for adding new features:
        * Docs first > internface > tests > implementation
        * Tie into Unix philosophy. Focus on outcome, not implementation. ([Brandon Rhodes talk about Unix and Python](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zFMdhXYlFfY))
    * Can submit up to 3 abstracts so if there is anything else we want to submit, we can.
* Parker-Oldenburg inversion:
    * Not on the immediate roadmap but welcome if anyone wants to code it
    * Can suffer from instability and may require filtering
    * Check if coordinates are latitude, longitude prior to FFT and yell at the user if they are (can be done across all FFT-based functions right now).
    * Should be straight forward to implement.
* Next meeting discuss roadmap and wishlist for Verde 2.0

## 2021-07-16

**Time:** 14:00 (UTC)

**Participants** (please add your name)

* Leo Uieda
* Santi Soler

**Discussion points:**

* Leo was invited to write a short news article for the Brazilian Geophysical Society about Fatiando (in Portuguese). Have to do this by August and will send around for some feedback.
* Split up the `verde.ScipyGridder` into 3:
    * `vd.NearestNeighbors`: NN interpolation using `cKDTree` or `pykdtree`. Option to average K nearest neighbors. Include a search radius as well (`max_distance` in the `query` method).
    * `vd.LinearGridder` and `vd.CubicGridder`: Wrap the scipy methods and add the option `extrapolate` (default to `True`) to fill NaNs with nearest neighbors (default to 1 neighbor).
    * Can help move the focus away from Green's functions.
    * Add these classes then deprecate `ScipyGridder` to remove in 2.0.0.
* Roadmap for Harmonica
    * Focus for v0.3:
        * MVP: Processing raw gravity -> Residual grid -> transformations (FFT or EQL)
            * Restrict to Cartesian
        * Missing components:
            * EQLHarmonicBoost
            * Finish FFT filters (explain using gridded data):
                * Upward derivative (horizontal uses xarray)
                * Upward continuation (optional)
                * Total gradient amplitude (optional)
                * Total horizontal gradient (optional)
            * Theory:
                * Coordinate systems
                * Gravity disturbance and corrections explained
            * Tutorials:
                * Basically what we did for Transform (but maybe split it up)
                * Tutorial on transformations (with EQLs and FFT and when to use which)
    * Documentation!
        * Good docstrings but no tutorials
        * Santi's thesis will be a good basis for the theory
        * What is the workflow and the theory
    * Wishlist:
        * Tesseroids with variable density
        * Gradient boosted EQLs
        * FFT solutions: derivatives, TGA, reduction to the pole, upward continuation
        * IGRF: 
            * Coeffs are here: https://www.ngdc.noaa.gov/IAGA/vmod/igrf.html
            * Calculation is actually really easy
            * No point in wrapping a fortran 77 code
            * Can use outputs from the fortran to test
            * Need to derive the equations for the x, y, z components of the SH model

## 2021-07-02

**Time:** 14:00 (UTC)

**Participants** (please add your name)

* Santi Soler
* Lu Li

**Discussion points:**

* Some test for `xrft`: https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/LL-Geo/PFToolbox/blob/master/xrft_note.ipynb
    * Looks like we can direct use `fft` and ignore `dft`
    * We can save the coordinate information from original grid, and pass it back for the `ifft`
* Santi opened a PR on `xrft` for padding grid and coordinates: https://github.com/xgcm/xrft/pull/158
    * They asked us to upstream the pad_coordinates to xarray
    * Start with supporting only padding through number of points (we can work on lenght of coordinates in the future)
* Set up a Bot for reminders on Fatiando calls
    * One day before
    * One hour before
    * Tweet reminders

## 2021-06-25

**Time:** 14:00 (UTC)

**Participants** (please add your name)

* Leo
* Santiago
* Agustina
* Lu

**Discussion points:**

* Interaction with `xrft`:
    * Santi has opened an Issue to start engaging the `xrft` community: [xrft #154](https://github.com/xgcm/xrft/issues/154)
        * Naming of the default function for applying FFT: `fft` vs `dft`
            * Devs agree and seem to favour `fft`
            * Requires improvement of docs around true_phase and true_amplitude
        * Coordinates shifts: `lag` argument in `fft` and including `lag` in the Fourier transform
        * Padding implementation:
            * They asked Santi to open a PR in `xrft` with a padding implementation
            * Wouldn't be better to enhance the `xarray.DataArray` pad for also pad the coordinates if they are evenly spaced?
            * Limitation of current padding in xarray:
                * By default, pads the coordinates with nans
                * Make sense because there is no way to know what the coordinates are if the spacing is irregular
                * Could do it if the coordinates are regular
            * Pitch:
                * Implement the padding coordinates in xrft for now
                * Basically check for nans and then add coordinates as needed
                * When it's implemented in xarray, we can shift to using that instead

**Quick updates:**

* Leo started preparing some data for RockHound to use as new sample data in our docs:
    * [Bathymetry from the Caribbean](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/fatiando/rockhound-data/blob/bathymetry/bathymetry-caribbean/prepare.ipynb)
    * [Global gravity and topography](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/fatiando/rockhound-data/blob/global_grids/gravity-topography-global/prepare.ipynb)


## 2021-06-18

**Time:** 14:00 (UTC)

**Participants** (please add your name)

* Santi Soler
* Agustina Pesce
* Leo Uieda

**Discussion points:**

* Reconcile the Harmonica and Verde gridding API?
    * The EQLHarmonic and Spline APIs are slightly different:
        * `.grid` takes the extra `upward` coordinate in EQLHarmonic
    * Done for a more intuitive and descriptive interface
    * But it means we can't use anything that relies on the Verde API, like `vd.Chain`, `vd.Vector`, and the proposed `vd.Derivative`.
        * Actually, we can but the `Chain.grid` and `EQLHarmonica.grid` methods are different, making it a bit awkward to use.
    * Is there a way to keep the `upward` argument and make the APIs compatible again (even if it means changing the Verde API)?
    * PROPOSAL:
        * Deprecate `region`, `shape`, `shaping` from the `grid` method, make it only take the actual grid coordinates, either from `vd.grid_coordinates` or from an `xarray` object (as 1d arrays).
        * Add a new property to gridders that documents the number of dimensions (`n_dims`?)
        * Make the `Chain` to inherit the maximum `n_dim` from the gridders in the chain
        * Add a `grid` method to `Chain` that complains if the passed coordinates are less than `n_dim`
        * Implement this in a `dev-2.0` branch that will be merged before major release
* Invite people from `xrft` to next meeting

## 2021-06-11

**Time:** 14:00 (UTC)

**Participants** (please add your name)

* Leo 
* Santi Soler
* Lu
* Andrea
* Agustina

**Quick updates**

* Pooch is using the `sphinx-book-theme` and trying out a new docs layout: [#237](https://github.com/fatiando/pooch/pull/237)
* Pooch PR to download from Zenodo and figshare: https://github.com/fatiando/pooch/pull/241
    * Will be useful for refactoring RockHound into our sample data repository
    * Can put every dataset in the same Zenodo/figshare archive and download individual files

**Longer discussion**

* Frequency-domain filters in Harmonica: [#238](https://github.com/fatiando/harmonica/pull/238)
    * Two type of functions:
        * Filters: work only in frequency domain. I would like to create a `filter` module where they should live.
            * Takes FFT from xrft and outputs still in frequency domain
            * Mostly for internal use but can be used by others as well
        * Filters will be public but not the wrapped FFT functions
        * Transform and processing functions (derivatives, upward continuation, RTP, etc). 
            * Their arguments and outputs are always in spatial domain.
            * They call xrft, use the filters, and then inverse the transform
    * We should engage with `xrft` and discuss some things regarding their implementation.
        * What `true_amplitude` and `true_phase` mean?
        * Why `lag` is not working properly?
            * Inverse transform removes the absolute value of the coordinates so they are centered at zero
            * Need to shift the coordinates in our own code
            * The `lag` seems like it does this but doesn't work for some reason.
            * Check if the coordinates of input and output match to see if we need to shift
        * Why having `dft` and `fft`? What are the differences between them?
        * Santi may have found some bugs in the phase
        * Engaging with them instead of wrapping everything locally is better for the community as a whole
        * Open an issue to start the conversation
    * Derivatives:
        * Should we add the option to choose between finite difference or FFT derivative for easting and northing?
            * The finite difference can be achieved by `xr.differentiate`.
            * For now, remove the horizontal ones from the PR and leave just the vertical
            * In the docs, use xarray for the horizontal derivatives
        * How about using an argument to specify the direction?
            * Better to have 1 function in the docs
            * But can't auto-complete the direction names in notebooks
        * Directional derivatives could be a usecase for FFT based horizontal derivatives
            * Lu will provide a reference/use case for this that we could base the implementation on
            * Could also be done with finite-differences 
            * The best solution might be: ? $$ F(DD)=F(g)*(u*i*sin(\theta)+v*i*cos(\theta))$$ So that we could combine the horizontal derivatives with directional derivatives together by different angle
            * Ref 1: Hang, N. T. T. (2017). Application of directional derivative method to determine boundary of magnetic sources by total magnetic anomalies. VIETNAM JOURNAL OF EARTH SCIENCES, 39(4), 360-375.
            * Ref 2: Stewart, I. C., & Miller, D. T. (2018). Directional tilt derivatives to enhance structural trends in aeromagnetic grids. Journal of Applied Geophysics, 159, 553-563.
        * Need to engage with xarray on their padding function.
            * It doesn't set coordinates (just NaNs) for the padded region
            * This makes xrft angry
            * Not trivial to implement in xarray since their Datasets aren't necessarily regular grids